Adding new parameter of requiresAudioSupport and BluetoothDeviceAddress (#879)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/NNNN-Adding-new-parameter-of-requiresAudioSupport-and-BluetoothDeviceAddress.md

# Adding new parameter of requiresAudioSupport and BluetoothDeviceAddress

* Proposal: [SDL-NNNN](NNNN-Adding-new-parameter-of-requiresAudioSupport-and-BluetoothDeviceAddress.md)
* Author: [Shohei Kawano](https://github.com/Shohei-Kawano)
* Status: Awaiting review
* Impacted Platforms: [ Core / iOS / Java Suite / RPC / HMI ]

## Introduction

In this proposal, by adding the `requiresAudioSupport` in `RegisterAppInterface` and the `BluetooothDeviceAddress` in `DeviceInfo`, when the device is connected via only USB, HU will connect to the SDL device's BT automatically or prompt the user requesting BT connection.  

## Motivation

Since Android recommends not supporting AOA2.0, Android will no longer be able to play audio using only USB, and it will be necessary to use BT A2DP to play audio.  

> In the current SDL Java Suite library, if requiresAudioSupport is TRUE and BT A2DP is not connected, SDL activation will be cancelled. Users aren't notified why the SDL App doesn't start, so the UX needs to be improved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the current SDL Java Suite library, if `requiresAudioSupport` is TRUE and BT A2DP is not connected, SDL activation will be cancelled. Users aren't notified why the SDL App doesn't start, so the UX needs to be improved.
```

> To solve this problem, add `BluetoothDeviceAddress` and `requiresAudioSupport` so that a new SDL device can be specified in RegisterAppInterface, and prompt the user to connect the device via BT, or the HU will connect the device via BT automatically when connected via USB. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve this problem, add `BluetoothDeviceAddress` and `requiresAudioSupport` so that a new SDL device can be specified in `RegisterAppInterface`, and prompt the user to connect the device via BT, or the HU will connect the device via BT automatically when connected via USB. 
```

## Proposed solution

Adding the new parameter `requiresAudioSupport` in `RegisterAppInterface` and `OnAppRegistered`, and `bluetoothDeviceAddress` in `DeviceInfo`.  
If the SDL App needs AudioSupport (meaning, the SDL App wants to use the BT A2DP for play music ), the SDL App sets `requireAudioSupport` to TRUE and sets the BT address of the device to `BluetoothDeviceAddress`.
If `requireAudioSupport` is TRUE, the HU will check the BT connection status.  
If BT is not connected, the HU will automatically connect BT using `BluetoothDeviceAddress` or request connection from the user.

> If `requireAudioSupport` is not set, the HU will refer to AppType. If AppType is MediaType, the HU operates with `requireAudioSupport` set to TRUE.

Reviewer: Please change all `requireAudioSupport` to `requiresAudioSupport` to match the new proposed parameter.

Author: commit 8a0b9864f430547a93723ce3b2b433e20a504f8d (HEAD -> Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress, origin/Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress)
Author: 河野 祥平 <103082@ad.nexty-ele.com>
Date:   Fri Dec 13 13:21:16 2019 +0900

    modify requireAudioSupport to requiresAudioSupport

# Adding new parameter of requiresAudioSupport and BluetoothDeviceAddress

* Proposal: [SDL-NNNN](NNNN-Adding-new-parameter-of-requiresAudioSupport-and-BluetoothDeviceAddress.md)
* Author: [Shohei Kawano](https://github.com/Shohei-Kawano)
* Status: Awaiting review
* Impacted Platforms: [ Core / iOS / Java Suite / RPC / HMI ]

## Introduction

In this proposal, by adding the `requiresAudioSupport` in `RegisterAppInterface` and the `BluetooothDeviceAddress` in `DeviceInfo`, when the device is connected via only USB, HU will connect to the SDL device's BT automatically or prompt the user requesting BT connection.  

## Motivation

Since Android recommends not supporting AOA2.0, Android will no longer be able to play audio using only USB, and it will be necessary to use BT A2DP to play audio.  
In the current SDL Java Suite library, if requiresAudioSupport is TRUE and BT A2DP is not connected,  
SDL activation will be cancelled. Users aren't notified why the SDL App doesn't start, so the UX needs to be improved.  

> To solve this problem, add `BluetoothDeviceAddress` and `requiresAudioSupport` so that a new SDL device can be specified in RegisterAppInterface,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve this problem, add `BluetoothDeviceAddress` and `requiresAudioSupport` so that a new SDL device can be specified in RegisterAppInterface, and prompt the user to connect the device via BT, or the HU will connect the device via BT automatically when connected via USB. 
```

You can then remove line 18. This will help the section to be formatted in a more readable way.

# Adding new parameter of requiresAudioSupport and BluetoothDeviceAddress

* Proposal: [SDL-NNNN](NNNN-Adding-new-parameter-of-requiresAudioSupport-and-BluetoothDeviceAddress.md)
* Author: [Shohei Kawano](https://github.com/Shohei-Kawano)
* Status: Awaiting review
* Impacted Platforms: [ Core / iOS / Java Suite / RPC / HMI ]

## Introduction

> In this proposal, by adding the `requiresAudioSupport` in `RegisterAppInterface` and the `BluetooothDeviceAddress` in `DeviceInfo`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this proposal, by adding the `requiresAudioSupport` in `RegisterAppInterface` and the `BluetooothDeviceAddress` in `DeviceInfo`,
```

> when the device is connected via only USB, HU will connect to the SDL device BT automatically or to prompt the user for needing to BT connection.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when the device is connected via only USB, HU will connect to the SDL device's BT automatically or prompt the user requesting BT connection.  
```

> when the device is connected via only USB, HU will connect to the SDL device BT automatically or to prompt the user for needing to BT connection.  

Reviewer: Please make this one paragraph (bring "when the device..." up to line 10).

Author: commit 433afd98e2bee81a5522813c67419b00ee9e3618 (HEAD -> Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress, origin/Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress)
Author: 河野 祥平 <103082@ad.nexty-ele.com>
Date:   Fri Dec 6 08:50:17 2019 +0900

    Modify line break

## Motivation

Since Android recommends not supporting AOA2.0, Android will no longer be able to play audio using only USB, and it will be necessary to use BT A2DP to play audio.  

> In the current Android library (java suite), if requiresAudioSupport is TRUE and BT A2DP is not connected,  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the current SDL Java Suite library, if requiresAudioSupport is TRUE and BT A2DP is not connected,  
```

> SDL activation will be cancelled. Users can't notice why SDL App doesn't start, so UX needs to be improved.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDL activation will be cancelled. Users aren't notified why the SDL App doesn't start, so the UX needs to be improved.  
```

Reviewer: Please also move this to be on line 16 to not break up the "In the current...will be cancelled." sentence onto multiple lines.

> To solve this problem, add a BluetoothDeviceAddress and requiresAudioSupport so that a new SDL device can be specified in RegisterAppInterface,  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve this problem, add `BluetoothDeviceAddress` and `requiresAudioSupport` so that a new SDL device can be specified in RegisterAppInterface,
```

> and prompt the user to connect device via BT or HU will connect device via BT automatically when connected via USB.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and prompt the user to connect the device via BT, or the HU will connect the device via BT automatically when connected via USB.  
```
Also, please move this to line 18 to not break the sentence into multiple lines.

## Proposed solution

> Adding the new parameter   `requiresAudioSupport` in `RegisterAppInterface` and `OnAppRegistered`, and `bluetoothDeviceAddress` in `DeviceInfo`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding the new parameter `requiresAudioSupport` in `RegisterAppInterface` and `OnAppRegistered`, and `bluetoothDeviceAddress` in `DeviceInfo`.
```

If an SDL App such as MediaType requires AudioSupport (such as BT A2DP), sets `requireAudioSupport` to TRUE and sets the BT address of the device in `BluetoothDeviceAddress`.
HU checks BT connection if `rerequresAudioSupport` is TRUE,If BT is not connected, the user is prompted to connect,  
or the BT address information is used to connect automatically.  
( If requiresAudioSupport is not set, refer to AppType, and if it is MediaType, operate as TRUE. )  
  

> Current Android library (java suite) when setting `requiresAudioSupport` is TRUE, and if the BT A2DP is not connected is to cancel the launch of SDL.  

Reviewer: I'm having trouble following this section. Can you please re-write to be more clear?

Author: I tried to re-write. Please confirm.

commit ae2f04c53c32fcf0b35902b4c63bd4b80f3a251f (HEAD -> Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress)
Author: 河野 祥平 <103082@ad.nexty-ele.com>
Date:   Fri Dec 6 09:17:30 2019 +0900

    Modify text of Proposed solution

Reviewer: I do not see your re-rewrite.  Can you please make sure this change is committed?

> However, with this modification, the SDL is always changed without depending on the connection status of BT A2DP.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, with this modification, the SDL is always changed without depending on the connection status of BT A2DP.  
```
I don't think "the SDL" makes sense here.  Can you please revise to specify what is always changed?

Author: I tried to re-write. Please confirm.

commit ae2f04c53c32fcf0b35902b4c63bd4b80f3a251f (HEAD -> Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress)
Author: 河野 祥平 <103082@ad.nexty-ele.com>
Date:   Fri Dec 6 09:17:30 2019 +0900

    Modify text of Proposed solution

Reviewer: I do not see your re-rewrite. Can you please make sure this change is committed?

            <description>Device model</description>
        </param>
        <param name="firmwareRev" type="String" minlength="0" maxlength="500" mandatory="false">
            <description>Device firmware revision</description>
        </param>
        <param name="os" type="String" minlength="0" maxlength="500" mandatory="false">
            <description>Device OS</description>
        </param>
        <param name="osVersion" type="String" minlength="0" maxlength="500" mandatory="false">
            <description>Device OS version</description>
        </param>
        <param name="carrier" type="String" minlength="0" maxlength="500" mandatory="false">
            <description>Device mobile carrier (if applicable)</description>
        </param>
        <param name="maxNumberRFCOMMPorts" type="Integer" minvalue="0" maxvalue="100" mandatory="false">
            <description>Omitted if connected not via BT.</description>
        </param>         
+       <param name="bluetoothDeviceAddress" type="String"  minlength="0" maxlength="500" mandatory="true">
+           <description>Device BT Address - If cannot get it, set All-F.</description>
+       </param>
    </struct>

> �c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: commit ee61653307ccbb8bbcb271e1f1454122cbc39180 (HEAD -> Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress, origin/Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress)
Author: 河野 祥平 <103082@ad.nexty-ele.com>
Date:   Thu Dec 5 18:03:13 2019 +0900

    Modify double-byte characters

    <function name="RegisterAppInterface" functionID="RegisterAppInterfaceID" messagetype="request" since="1.0">
        <description>
            Establishes an interface with a mobile application.
            Before registerAppInterface no other commands will be accepted/executed.
        </description>
        
        <param name="syncMsgVersion" type="SyncMsgVersion" mandatory="true" since="1.0">
            <description>See SyncMsgVersion</description>
        </param>

> �c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: commit ee61653307ccbb8bbcb271e1f1454122cbc39180 (HEAD -> Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress, origin/Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress)
Author: 河野 祥平 <103082@ad.nexty-ele.com>
Date:   Thu Dec 5 18:03:13 2019 +0900

    Modify double-byte characters

            <description>
                ID used to uniquely identify current state of all app data that can persist through connection cycles (e.g. ignition cycles).
                This registered data (commands, submenus, choice sets, etc.) can be reestablished without needing to explicitly reregister each piece.
                If omitted, then the previous state of an app's commands, etc. will not be restored.
                When sending hashID, all RegisterAppInterface parameters should still be provided (e.g. ttsName, etc.).
            </description>
        </param>
+       <param name="deviceInfo" type="DeviceInfo" mandatory="true" since="X.X">
-       <param name="deviceInfo" type="DeviceInfo" mandatory="false" since="3.0">
            <description>
                See DeviceInfo.
            </description>
+           <history>
+                <param name="deviceInfo" type="DeviceInfo" mandatory="false" since="3.0" until="X.X"/>
+           </history>
        </param>
        <param name="appID" type="String" maxlength="100" mandatory="true" since="2.0">
            <description>ID used to validate app with policy table entries</description>
        </param>

> �c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: commit ee61653307ccbb8bbcb271e1f1454122cbc39180 (HEAD -> Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress, origin/Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress)
Author: 河野 祥平 <103082@ad.nexty-ele.com>
Date:   Thu Dec 5 18:03:13 2019 +0900

    Modify double-byte characters

+        </param>
    </function>
```
  
Mobile API:
```xml
<struct name="DeviceInfo">
  <param name="name" type="String" mandatory="true">
    <description>The name of the device connected.</description>
  </param>
  <param name="id" type="String" mandatory="true">
    <description>The ID of the device connectedi: either hash of device's USB serial number(in case of USB connection) or has of device's MAC address(in case of BlueTooth or WIFI connection</description>
  </param>
  <param name="transportType" type="Common.TransportType" mandatory="false">
    <description>The transport type the named-app's-device is connected over HU(BlueTooth, USB or WiFi). It must be provided in OnAppRegistered and in UpdateDeviceList</description>
  </param>
  <param name="isSDLAllowed" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">
    <description>Sent by SDL in UpdateDeviceList. 'true' - if device is allowed for PolicyTable Exchange; 'false' - if device is NOT allowed for PolicyTable Exchange </description>
  </param>
+ <param name="bluetoothDeviceAddress" type="String" mandatory="true">
+   <description>Device BT Address - If cannot get it, set All-F.</description>
+ </param>
</struct>

> �c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: commit ee61653307ccbb8bbcb271e1f1454122cbc39180 (HEAD -> Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress, origin/Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress)
Author: 河野 祥平 <103082@ad.nexty-ele.com>
Date:   Thu Dec 5 18:03:13 2019 +0900

    Modify double-byte characters

<struct name="HMIApplication">

> �c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: commit ee61653307ccbb8bbcb271e1f1454122cbc39180 (HEAD -> Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress, origin/Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress)
Author: 河野 祥平 <103082@ad.nexty-ele.com>
Date:   Thu Dec 5 18:03:13 2019 +0900

    Modify double-byte characters

    <param name="deviceInfo" type="Common.DeviceInfo" mandatory="true">

>        <description>The ID, serial number, transport type the named-app's-device is connected over to HU.</description>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       <description>The ID, serial number, and transport type by which the named app's device is connected to HU.</description>
```

    </param>

> �c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: commit ee61653307ccbb8bbcb271e1f1454122cbc39180 (HEAD -> Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress, origin/Adding_requiresAudioSupport_and_BTAddress)
Author: 河野 祥平 <103082@ad.nexty-ele.com>
Date:   Thu Dec 5 18:03:13 2019 +0900

    Modify double-byte characters

    <param name="cloudConnectionStatus" type="Common.CloudConnectionStatus" mandatory="false"></param>
+    <param name="requiresAudioSupport" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">
+        <description>Set whether or not this app requires the use of an audio streaming output device.</description>
+    </param>
</struct>
```

## Potential downsides

> Made a major change to add Madatory TRUE request.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal makes a major change to add Mandatory TRUE request.  
```

> It is necessary to coordinate the operation with the old system that is not Madatory TRUE.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is necessary to coordinate the operation with the old system that is not Mandatory TRUE.  
```

## Impact on existing code

> Since new parameters are added, Core and  iOS, Android, RPC,HMI are affected.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since new parameters are added, Core and  iOS, Android, RPC, HMI are affected.
```

# Adding new parameter of requiresAudioSupport and BluetoothDeviceAddress

* Proposal: [SDL-NNNN](NNNN-Adding-new-parameter-of-requiresAudioSupport-and-BluetoothDeviceAddress.md)
* Author: [Shohei Kawano](https://github.com/Shohei-Kawano)
* Status: Awaiting review
* Impacted Platforms: [ Core / iOS / Java Suite / RPC / HMI ]

## Introduction

In this proposal, by adding the `requiresAudioSupport` in `RegisterAppInterface` and the `BluetooothDeviceAddress` in `DeviceInfo`, when the device is connected via only USB, HU will connect to the SDL device's BT automatically or prompt the user requesting BT connection.  

## Motivation

Since Android recommends not supporting AOA2.0, Android will no longer be able to play audio using only USB, and it will be necessary to use BT A2DP to play audio.  

> In the current SDL Java Suite library, if requiresAudioSupport is TRUE and BT A2DP is not connected,  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the current SDL Java Suite library, if requiresAudioSupport is TRUE and BT A2DP is not connected, SDL activation will be cancelled. Users aren't notified why the SDL App doesn't start, so the UX needs to be improved.
```
Please try and keep sentences in the same line for readability.

> SDL activation will be cancelled. Users aren't notified why the SDL App doesn't start, so the UX needs to be improved.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Per my comment above, this should be included in line 15, with the rest of the sentence.

To solve this problem, add `BluetoothDeviceAddress` and `requiresAudioSupport` so that a new SDL device can be specified in RegisterAppInterface, and prompt the user to connect the device via BT, or the HU will connect the device via BT automatically when connected via USB. 
and prompt the user to connect the device via BT, or the HU will connect the device via BT automatically when connected via USB.  

## Proposed solution

Adding the new parameter `requiresAudioSupport` in `RegisterAppInterface` and `OnAppRegistered`, and `bluetoothDeviceAddress` in `DeviceInfo`.  

> If the SDL App needs AudioSupport( it mean, SDL App want to use the BT A2DP for play music ).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the SDL App needs AudioSupport (meaning, the SDL App wants to use the BT A2DP for play music ), the SDL App sets `requireAudioSupport` to TRUE and sets the BT address of the device to `BluetoothDeviceAddress`.
```

> SDL App sets sets `requireAudioSupport` to TRUE and sets the BT address of the device to `BluetoothDeviceAddress`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is now included in line 23.

If `requireAudioSupport` is TRUE, the HU will check the BT connection status.  

> And if BT is not connected, HU will automatically connect BT using `BluetoothDeviceAddress` or request connection to user.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If BT is not connected, the HU will automatically connect BT using `BluetoothDeviceAddress` or request connection from the user.
```

> (If requireAudioSupport is not set, HU will refer to AppType.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `requireAudioSupport` is not set, the HU will refer to AppType. If AppType is MediaType, the HU operates with `requireAudioSupport` set to TRUE.
```

> If AppType is MediaType, HU operates with requireAudioSupport set to TRUE.)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is now included in line 27.

> The current SDL Java Suite library cancels SDL launch if the "requiresAudioSupport" setting is TRUE and BT A2DP is not connected.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current SDL Java Suite library cancels SDL launch if the `requiresAudioSupport` setting is TRUE and BT A2DP is not connected.  
```

                This registered data (commands, submenus, choice sets, etc.) can be reestablished without needing to explicitly reregister each piece.
                If omitted, then the previous state of an app's commands, etc. will not be restored.
                When sending hashID, all RegisterAppInterface parameters should still be provided (e.g. ttsName, etc.).
            </description>
        </param>
+       <param name="deviceInfo" type="DeviceInfo" mandatory="true" since="X.X">
-       <param name="deviceInfo" type="DeviceInfo" mandatory="false" since="3.0">
            <description>
                See DeviceInfo.
            </description>
+           <history>
+                <param name="deviceInfo" type="DeviceInfo" mandatory="false" since="3.0" until="X.X"/>
+           </history>
        </param>
        <param name="appID" type="String" maxlength="100" mandatory="true" since="2.0">
            <description>ID used to validate app with policy table entries</description>
        </param>
...
        <param name="nightColorScheme" type="TemplateColorScheme" mandatory="false" since="5.0"/>

> +        <param name="requiresAudioSupport" type="Boolean" mandatory="false" since="X.X">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+       <param name="requiresAudioSupport" type="Boolean" mandatory="false" since="X.X">
```

+            <description>Set whether or not this app requires the use of an audio streaming output device.</description>
+        </param>
    </function>
```
  

> Mobile API:

Reviewer: Should this be HMI API?

Author: Yes, HMI API is correct. Thank you for your notice.
I modified this.

commit 49704e066eea2da625f3027ad4413ffd2233859d
Author: 河野 祥平 <103082@ad.nexty-ele.com>
Date:   Wed Dec 11 13:14:14 2019 +0900

    Modify Proposed Solution

    <description>Sent by SDL in UpdateDeviceList. 'true' - if device is allowed for PolicyTable Exchange; 'false' - if device is NOT allowed for PolicyTable Exchange </description>
  </param>
+ <param name="bluetoothDeviceAddress" type="String" mandatory="true">
+   <description>Device BT Address - If cannot get it, set All-F.</description>
+ </param>
</struct>
...
<struct name="HMIApplication">
...
    <param name="deviceInfo" type="Common.DeviceInfo" mandatory="true">
       <description>The ID, serial number, and transport type by which the named app's device is connected to HU.</description>
    </param>
...
    <param name="cloudConnectionStatus" type="Common.CloudConnectionStatus" mandatory="false"></param>
+    <param name="requiresAudioSupport" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">
+        <description>Set whether or not this app requires the use of an audio streaming output device.</description>
+    </param>
</struct>
```

## Potential downsides

This proposal makes a major change to add Mandatory TRUE request.  
It is necessary to coordinate the operation with the old system that is not Mandatory TRUE.  

## Impact on existing code

> Since new parameters are added, Core and  iOS, Android, RPC, HMI are affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since new parameters are added, Core, iOS, Java Suite, RPC, and HMI are affected.
```
